Draft of the guide (#14)
golemfactory/yagna-docs: introduction/payment-driver-getting-started.md

This document aims to provide guidelines to develop a payment driver based on boilerplate code from [Yagna repository](https://github.com/golemfactory/yagna). It assumes reader has some experience in [Rust language](https://www.rust-lang.org/) and also Yagna project's codebase. We're providing an information for payment driver that will be integrated into Yagna daemon codebase and gains from reusing a lot of already provided components. It's also possible to develop stand-alone driver application that communicates with the Yagna daemon via TCP, but it won't be described here.

## Overview

Payment service of Yagna daemon expects that payment driver will handle all communication with particular L2 network provider (but it's not limited to Ethereum ecosystem).
You might assume that payment driver should:

- communicate with daemon services over Golem Service Bus (GSB),
- provide operation like deposits, exits, transfer, account unlocking,
- delegate transaction's signing to the Identity service,
- notify Payment service about committed transactions,
- retry operations that failed to due non-critical causes.

Here is a checklist that driver implementors would want to follow:

> - [] Fork the Yagna repository and clone it locally to start working on the code,

Reviewer: I'd add something like "create a new crate for your driver in `core/payment-drivers` directory.

Reviewer: Bump.

Author: :) just in the separate (atomic) commit

- [] Implement all methods from `PaymentDriver` trait, some of the them are describe in the section below,
- [] Your implementation can also benefits from database handling code and backgroud tasks in `cron` module, but it is not mandatory to use them,

> - [] Make a new driver builds and starts with the Yagna daemon. See instructions bellow,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [] Make a new driver build and start with the Yagna daemon. See instructions bellow,
```

- `fund` - Funds the account from faucet when run on testnet. Provides instructions how to fund on mainnet.
- `schedule_payment` - Schedules the payment between specified accounts. Payments are processed by the `cron` job. Payment tracking is done by cron job, see: `PaymentDriverCron::confirm_payments`. Returns an `order_id`. See also `notify_payment`
- `verify_payment` - Verifies the payment transaction specified by transaction's confirmation (transaction's identifier).
- `validate_allocation` - Validates that allocated funds are still sufficient to cover the costs of the task (including the transaction fees, e.g. Ethereum's Gas). Allocation is created when the requestor publishes the task on the market.
- `account_event` - Called by the Identity service to notify the driver that specified account is _locked_ / _unlocked_. Identity service holds accounts private keys and signs transactions.
- `recv_init_required` - Tells whether account initialization is needed for receiving payments.
- `get_transaction_balance` - Deprecated. Drivers should return very big number (e.g. `1_000_000_000_000_000_000u64` or the whole token supply).

> The following driver's operations are processed periodically by the cron jobs. It is not mandatory to implemeny `PaymentDriverCron` trait as long as the driver can operate without the cron.

Reviewer: Please run the whole text through a spellchecker.
```suggestion
The following driver's operations are processed periodically by the cron jobs. It is not mandatory to implement `PaymentDriverCron` trait as long as the driver can operate without the cron.
```

> # Getting started to write L2 payment driver for Yagna

Reviewer 2: It does not have to be a L2 driver, they can also implement a paypal driver if they want ;)

## Overview

Payment service of Yagna daemon expects that payment driver will handle all communication with particular L2 network provider (but it's not limited to Ethereum ecosystem).
You might assume that payment driver should:

- communicate with daemon services over Golem Service Bus (GSB),
- provide operation like deposits, exits, transfer, account unlocking,
- delegate transaction's signing to the Identity service,
- notify Payment service about committed transactions,
- retry operations that failed to due non-critical causes.

Here is a checklist that driver implementors would want to follow:

- [] Fork the Yagna repository and clone it locally to start working on the code,

> - [] Implement all methods from `PaymentDriver` and `PaymentDriverCron` traits, some of the them are describe in the section below,

Reviewer 2: Cron is optional, Db is also available to be used

## Starting a new driver with Yagna

Add a new block in `start_payment_drivers` function in [`core/serv/src/main.rs`](https://github.com/golemfactory/yagna/blob/master/core/serv/src/main.rs#L216) file.
It should follow the convention and declares it's own compilation flag. Don't forget to set this flag during the compilation :wink:.

## Testing a new driver

When you consider your work is done, take some time to actually see it in action. Be sure we will scrupulously test the driver behavior in the following scenarios, including the error messages written in logs and returned from CLI. Don't hesitate to ask questions, we are here to help.  

We will run the following tests (happy paths and providing invalid parameters to make it fail).

- command line interaction with the driver: `init`, `fund`, `enter`, `transfer`, `status`,  `exit` ...
- [quickstart tutorial](https://golem-network.gitbook.io/golem-sdk-develop/requestor-tutorials/flash-tutorial-of-requestor-development) with the blender example task,

> - review made transactions in the corresponding block explorer.

Reviewer 2: i think we should also add invoice_flow and debit_note flow tests in this list
